...
trying to migrate a community to Blue Sky, and we wanted
to hear from other people that are also working with their communities
and trying to build community on Blue Sky, and we're on
Twitter, or other social networks, and hear from you also, what works,
what insights do you have from your experience?
So, I'll start, and I'll kind of continue that question
about Sky Follower Bridge, so I think that's a
really cool tool, but I think one of the challenges with it
is if people are joining after you've searched, then they don
't appear.
You have to go research, so I'm a PhD student, but
I've, on the side, been slowly working towards a tool that
is, it has to work similarly in the case of X, because
X, you can't export your followers and get username handles.
It gives you gibberish numbers.
Other platforms, they do actually export user handles, so there's a
little bit of complexity there in terms of data management from EU
programs.
And so, I've been thinking through a little bit of this,
I kind of did a vibe-coded version, and now I
'm slowly thinking through building this up as an actual system, where
Blue Sky, and Skylight, and all these different AT protocol apps
can actually implement this as a notification that you can get, "Oh,
someone just joined." Now you can follow them, or automatically follow them,
or whatever.
So, there's a lot of really cool implementations, too, of
like, verifying that you are who, you as your Blue Sky
handle and your DID, you're associated with this LinkedIn account, and
if we can get that as like, a verified, authenticated match,
that makes it a lot easier to find those matches, because sometimes
the handles are a little bit different, especially since we can have
domain handles on Blue Sky, that changes the equation a little bit.
So, that is something I've been thinking about personally, and trying
to like, move people over, is like, I want to be notified
when someone is coming to Blue Sky, and not only that, I
want them sorted in order of who's actually posting, not just
who's here.
I think that would also help with what you said, Scott, like,
if someone moves over to Blue Sky, and people get notified, they
would get followed, and then you get that dopamine hit of like, "
Oh, people are engaging with me, and they like to see me
here." So, yeah, there's something there, maybe.
Yeah, and I think I want to pick up on one thing
that we'll probably need to engage with, like, almost kind of
a hosting, like, the welcoming committee, if you will, you know, kind
of that piece.
Because that was a common refrain I heard, like, "Oh, it's
just that I don't get engagement.
Nobody, you know, like, nothing happens." And it's like, "Well, yeah,
you're new." And, you know, like, you might have had, you
know, other platforms, and they engaged in a certain way.
Or that kind of fertile ground to have people that kind of
are engaging, like, "Oh, yeah, let's jump in, like, welcome." I
remember, like, during the entire phase of when we were trying, when
we, you know, in beta, when we still had the invites, and
we're bringing people over for Science Twitter and that, you know,
people actually set up, like, you know, Hi SciSky, where
it's like, "You're new here.
Tell us what you do." And that, I think, was one of
the ways that kind of set the ground a little bit.
It was like, "Yeah, this is what I do." And you just,
you kind of follow that, and enough people were doing it.
You didn't necessarily have to have the entire community do it,
but the bigger ecosystem was kind of popping in, and saying, "We
're glad you're here." So, I guess, how am I supposed
to hold this?
Yeah, just at the bottom.
Three kind of general reflections or, like, reactions to Scott's talk
and thinking about...
So, I'm Maria Antoniak.
I'm a computer scientist at the University of Colorado Boulder.
I work in natural language processing, or otherwise known as AI now.
So, that's my academic community.
I'm coming from, like, NLP, machine learning, Twitter, and now
the AI social media community.
And so, thinking about how that community has migrated or not migrated...
That community has not migrated very well.
And I think there are a few reasons...
There's a lot of reasons for that.
And there's also a lot of mystery.
Like, if I knew all the answers, then I would already have
them all in blue sky.
But so, one of the things is the industry connections in our
research community.
So, of course, a lot of what is happening in AI is
to do with what is happening in industry.
And that what is happening in research is also connected to what
is happening in industry.
And so, I think there's a general sense that, you know,
if you want to be in the know, if you want to
know what's happening in industry, if you want to know what
's happening in industry, if you want those kind of connections, if
you're one of these, like, sorry, but like, grifters
and hangers on who start up whatever, whatever.
So, there's this feeling that you need to be on X.
And that's where people are.
So, I think that is genuinely difficult to break away from.
Starter packs.
We tried this and it worked initially.
Like, I think there was also this sense of like, oh, there
's this like a prestigious list.
And I want to be part of the prestigious list or, you
know, I see that there are important people on that list and
I also want to be on that list and I want to
be in the place where this list is.
And so, we had temporarily a lot of movement when we had,
I was the one running our NLP starter pack.
And then there was like a lot of backlash, not just for
NLP.
I think other starter packs in general, like they have some kind
of design limitations and some problems, at least at that time, or
like if you were added to a starter pack, you didn't
know that you were added to a starter pack.
And, and you would suddenly get a thousand new, depending on who
you were, you might get like a thousand new mysterious followers overnight.
A lot of them, not anyone that you know or connected to,
and suddenly your posts are getting a lot more attention, sometimes very
negative attention.
So, I don't know.
I think we need something like a starter pack, but, and sorry,
one more thing.
And then think about welcoming committee as well.
I think about like old days of Twitter and like they're
like follow Friday.
What's that?
It's like hashtag follow Friday and fear five accounts that you
should follow.
There were all these kind of things on Twitter that I just,
on one hand we could be like, okay, well we should do
that too.
Like we, but I don't know that it translates to our
modern time and just like the way that we operate on social
media.
Like even when I say it out loud, right?
It sounds like cringey.
And I don't know what the right way is.
Like I'm not the right cool person to do non cr
ingey things.
But like someone should be thinking about that and replacing those old
welcoming committee procedures with something new.
Just to call out Francisco, if you want to join this panel
as someone's on Twitter, like feel free to hop in.
I don't want to put you on the spot, but just,
yeah, feel free if you want to crash the party.
Okay.
Yeah, just come up.
We're pulling in a guest for the audience on stream.
Phoning a friend.
I don't guarantee I'll speak much.
Sure.
But please introduce yourself.
Introduce myself.
Yeah.
Hello.
I am Francisco.
I'm a heavy Twitter user.
Twitter users anonymous.
Sorry?
Intervention right now.
It is an intervention.
No, I've been so excited about Blue Sky for five years.
And, you know, a lot of my motivations are around getting to
data sovereignty, right?
And moving the discourse that I think is important off of Twitter
and to Blue Sky.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I do, you know, I have a background in AI safety
and tools for thought and community building.
And so this is all kind of my wheelhouse a little
bit.
The thoughts about the sort of some of the resist, resist, like
resistance.
The resistance?
Yeah.
So, obviously there's just the network effects, the Matthew effects, right?
That winner takes all.
Like, it's much more worth it for me to post on
Twitter.
I get rewarded a lot more with attention.
The way I've been hoping to approach this is if I
show that there are cool enough modes of interaction elsewhere with open
data.
It could be Blue Sky.
It could be through custom data sovereignty solutions.
Like, the community archive is something that I did for my Twitter
community.
Yeah.
If you show new use cases, then people might be persuaded by
the extra value.
Yeah.
So, I think that gets to kind of this idea of whether
we're just trying to replicate Blue Sky or replicate Twitter on
Blue Sky or are we trying to do something different?
I think a lot of us here understand that the AT protocol
offers a lot more than what Twitter itself could offer.
And so, how do we start building out these systems to attract
other people?
And how do we get out that knowledge?
I think that is one big struggle maybe for some of us
here is we're only on the AT protocol now.
We're not posting anywhere else.
So, how do we get these other people who are on the
other platforms over here?
And I know in my community, research-wise, I'm chemical engineering
and like computational biology.
A lot of them are on LinkedIn.
They moved off of X, but they're on LinkedIn.
And when I go and look at those posts, they're long
posts.
They're not 300 characters.
And so, I think Leah has extended lexicon that allows
you to do longer posts.
And so, that I think is definitely an attractor for a
lot of scientists.
They post long posts and they don't really love threads.
I also just want to throw in another question of the mix.
Before we get on to kind of solutions, I was also, because
we talked in our kind of some of our pre-convers
ations about young researchers and like their new social media habits or
lack thereof.
And yeah, also just kind of putting that in and maybe if
you also have some insights there.
Yeah, I think that was a piece that came to me as
I saw like engaging the people that actually did have large pres
ences on Twitter that had dropped off, you know.
I think they had kind of like just washed their hands.
Like, I don't know if I want to do that game
again.
And like that, there were multiple reasons for that kind of dis
engagement.
And I think like we should be looking at the younger, the
actual doc students and undergrads and like giving them a
chance because they're going to be the ones that actually build
the stuff.
They're going to be the ones that are going to have
the ideas like let's reinvent the wheel here.
And that's what I think where you can get people really
interested in it.
So, you know, we might have actually passed a torch moment of
like the opportunity to really reconstitute it.
But I think we can take some of the pieces and make
something better.
And I think just one other side I had was that the,
you know, the challenge really comes down to is like it's
kind of similar to somebody who is really into coffee, right.
And like, you know, grinds their own beans and does the,
you know, very particular way that they brew it.
You know, I think that's this community.
We're very into what the AP protocol can do.
But if you try to explain that too much, it really overwhel
ms people.
Like, why would I want to do that?
Like, I mean like, so you're telling me it's always
out there.
And like they people know when I block and, and it's
like, yeah, but that's actually there's some benefit.
And I ran into that several times when I'm trying to
explain to people, it's like finding that balance of like, you
want to try it.
And like, you know, people might, you know, for example, a kind
of ventilated seat in your car, like, why would I ever
need that?
You take a three hour drive.
You're like, oh, yeah, yeah, now I get it.
But you got to be there to try it out because otherwise
it just doesn't click.
So yeah, thinking about like junior researchers, younger people, again, there's
this, there's kind of the marketing problem of like blue skies
scene, I guess, is like millennial.
And I don't know, I can't solve that problem.
I don't know what to do about that.
But then we've tried to get feedback.
I try to talk to more junior students, younger people about like,
how they feel about social media, and blue sky in particular.
And I wouldn't say I have like a full picture.
But part of what I hear, well, part of it, I think
is just, in general, the community is fractured.
And there are other things going on, especially in the US, where
like anyone on a visa posting on social media at all is
a very scary, potentially very high consequence act right now.
So there's that whole background.
But usually what I hear is like, oh, it feels scary or
feels like you're up on a stage or, and to some
extent, I do think we have some new challenges like what I
was just mentioning.
But also some of these are just, they actually may not be
unique to right now.
And I can remember when I was a junior student, I just
lurked.
Of course, yeah, I also felt nervous.
And I wasn't going to just like chime in to random
conversations between senior researchers.
I lurked.
And that was fine.
And I gained a lot from that.
So there needs to be, so maybe on one hand, like, it
's okay, that's not a new thing for people newer to
a community to be more nervous about posting or joining, interacting in
the community.
But then what we can do as more senior people or people
who are more comfortable posting and being active is to, you know,
give them something to gain from being there.
So interacting with each other, having conversations, posting about papers, posting papers
of junior researchers, and trying to also build infrastructure to support that
kind of sharing or encourage that kind of sharing.
I think that's one of the reasons that Paper Sky Jest
is so great, right?
Like highlighting papers.
And that gives a clear gain to people.
So I'm actually not that much younger, really, but I am
a current PhD student.
And since I was, like, applying, you know, a few years ago,
or I don't know what time is.
Four years ago?
Oh, God.
Yeah.
So I was applying, like, five years ago.
And what I can say is that I was pretty much on
Instagram.
So it's a very visual-based community.
But there is a very large, wonderful ecosystem of women scientists, scientists,
communicators, who were posting things to just help other -- these were
PhD students who had just started posting to help other people who
were interested in PhDs to get into their PhD programs, just
talking about their experiences, talking about the different types of programs, different
situations that occur with all the different programs that exist, and that
kind of thing.
And what I found is most of them are still on Instagram.
I've seen a few try to come over, and they don
't get engagement.
So they're like, why be here?
Because there's also a fair amount of overlap with, okay, like,
how can I use this to monetize?
Like, how can I use this for extra income?
I'm a PhD student.
I don't have a lot of free time.
So if I'm going to be making this content, that content
takes a lot of time.
I've done it.
It takes a lot of time to make the quality content that
these students were making.
And so being able to kind of get some incentive to do
that is pretty beneficial.
So if you come over from Instagram to Blue Sky, and then
no one's liking anything, it's just kind of like, I
'm not making money and no one's seeing it.
What's the point?
So one of the things I've been trying to work on
is a custom feed that's PhD chatter.
And I know on Twitter, like, people just, like, used a hashtag.
And then over time, it became, like, algorithmic where you didn
't necessarily need to do that.
And so kind of what people did when they came over to
Blue Sky was just try to do hashtag-based feeds.
But what ends up happening is those end up being chronological
feeds where people aren't getting the content that they want.
Like, it kind of sometimes feels like you're getting ad blast
ed a little bit.
And so what I've been working on is more of a
regex, like, semantic style matching of, like, language, like, common
language that you might use when talking about research, when talking about
your dissertation, your PhD paper, what you're doing in your academic
career.
And then filtering that from people's bios to just pull in,
okay, this is a PhD student.
Let's filter out the professors.
But I think even if you're filtering out the professors, sometimes
knowing that they can see it is a little bit of a
deterrent.
Because, especially as an undergrad, I know, I was, like, the brief
moments I spent on Twitter actually was probably pre-undergrad.
And, like, I wouldn't want any professor or teacher seeing what
I was saying.
I was just whining because I needed to whine.
And so I think we also need those, like, closed permission spaces
really to attract different groups, to give them that space to be
free and feel comfortable.
But we also need to kind of, like, grow how do we
get people to find these feeds?
The search is not very good.
And so how do we get people even exposed to these things?
And finding the people that they can connect with that aren't
necessarily people they're already connected with.
And I think that was a thing people found Twitter very useful
for that hasn't necessarily existed as much yet on Blue Sky,
at least in the academic sense.
I think that's very much been building up from existing networks
rather than trying to expand and grow networks.
I know Eugene has a practice of, like, trying to find junior
researchers' papers and posting about them.
And maybe we could do more of that somehow and make it
more, like, I don't know, feeds that promote young researchers or
give them more engagement somehow.
Yeah, I think, again, gain or showing, like, I've, through Blue
Sky, got to know some junior PhD students.
And we're now collaborating through, like, you know, nice little social
media interactions.
So, I don't know, somehow, like, showing the rest of them
that this is possible.
It's to your benefit to be posting about stuff.
You want people to see your papers.
There's a lot to gain by being on there, even if
you aren't posting all the time.
There's a nice hack.
Barely a hack, but replying to people on the topic
of, oh, you know, making content is expensive.
Nobody sees my posts.
When you're a small account, you want to reply to bigger
accounts.
And that's kind of how you give yourself to know for
other people.
And, you know, this, you can have good reply game, right?
Like, you've got to, you've got to reply properly, like,
like, it's improv or something.
You know, like, in a yes and kind of way, you want
to be supporting the person you're replying to.
You want to be adding something to the conversation.
And this is one of, you know, a basket of norms that
kind of support a generative, like, intellectual environment online, right?
And the norms aren't necessarily the same as they are in
real life because you have a different set of affordances, you
know.
I almost wonder if that's a way that you can kind
of build this up is, you know, we have these, you know,
kind of pitches and sessions usually at conferences where it's like
kind of the junior members and students, you know, how do you
kickstart your career?
This would be valuable content.
Like, I mean, it, I think that's one of the age
pieces is like Twitter started off like nobody knew what it was.
And it kind of evolved into like, oh, this can actually be
powerful.
And so I think you're, if we'd all rolled the
clock back, you know, five or 10 years, and we're like,
we were coming in from this, like, okay, I need to do
this, but I don't know how.
And, like, I don't want to mess up.
And I think, and, like, particularly in, you know, Twitter, the actual
incentive structure is conflict.
So it is about, like, even if you were, like, an undergrad,
you might have somebody jump on you out of the blue with
this huge account, and you're just like, what did I do?
And that's why I think, like, you know, the Leah features
are phenomenal in that way, because it is in that sense, like,
let's give you a little bit more control.
Like, like, do you want to stand up?
Like, no, that's wrong.
And here's why.
And, like, I'm going to get in this.
Or, like, I'm not up for this, and I just need
you to go away before this goes on.
And so you have that lever, which I think could be a
piece that does help cultivate the next generation.
I'm just having one more thought about this right now, which
is, like, maybe it's just all wrong, especially for, like, if
we're not the junior people, to be worrying about why aren
't junior people?
How do we make it cool?
And instead, like, I could think, you know, any academic in the
room, if you've organized a talk series or a cloakroom,
you're like, why is no one coming?
How do I get this?
Like, you need to get the faculty to come.
If their advisors are on blue sky, they're going to be
on blue sky.
So maybe we should just focus on that.
How do we get the senior researchers who are comfortable posting, clearly,
because they're posting on X or LinkedIn, how do we get
them on blue sky?
We can open it up to the crowd, if you want to
talk, ask questions.
And I think there's a really good point about that it
's hard as a senior academic to know what's necessary.
I was thinking about how we can also avoid turning up like
a square peg into a round hole with content.
So maybe the solution for people of early career, frankly, to see
there are a lot of different trends here.
I think there are a lot of different things that we can
do, and I don't remember what we can do these days.
I think I see things like the group chats that are far
more popular, and people generally don't have more contacts, and you
can post your faces.
What is it that you can say for a national value?
I think it makes me wonder if things like really could somehow
be adapted to work to the kind of landscape space, and having
to describe a chat spaces for the person, but also make things
like having to be pressuring on these things about bias.
I think we're really missing out in this country that there
's a group here.
We're looking out on these kind of abilities to have these
more close, safe spaces.
Because I agree with Ireland that I think a lot of how
unsafe I thought you wanted to spend the rest of it online.
It's safe to pass it from so you can see it,
and you're really great by it.
Hi.
What is that?
Sorry?
So to summarize kind of the comment and question for the stream,
Emily was just kind of reiterating the point of, okay, yeah,
as an undergrad, it was so overwhelming to be able to post,
and then know some big professor could see this and do something
about it.
Maybe we can use Rumi as a potential avenue for providing
group chats, which seem maybe more popular with the younger generations, and
provide a more private space for them to interact while still being
on the same platform where their professors are.
So I don't actually know what Rumi does.
I'm assuming it's like-- It's like Discord on AP
RA.
It's like Discord.
Cool.
Yeah.
Well, I think a lot about the dark forest problem, which is
basically this, that the open internet, you know, opens you up to
surveillance and wanted attention.
And, you know, there's the dark forest collective who kind of
write about this a bit.
And then the usual answer they give is, oh, people retreat to
the cozy web, which is group chats.
Right?
One thing that bothers me about that solution is that you don
't get discovery.
And, you know, the contributions you make in the safety of your
group chat don't necessarily percolate to, you know, the
knowledge comments.
Right?
Unless someone takes the link you just posted or takes a screenshot
and repost it to some other group chat.
So I think, I think it's really important to figure out
if there's something in between, you know, the open internet and
group chats.
And I think we have someone from Rumi in the room.
Thank you.
I love this comment.
I totally agree.
That's, that's such a critical part of why we're
making Rumi on Ad Proto.
Like, this is what we want.
We, like, we know that communities want to work together to create
stuff.
And if that's a community of researchers, like, you know, working
on a problem, whether it's, like, within an academy or some
other context.
Like, people creating ideas together and, like, chat for us.
We create chat because we feel that chat is the lowest barrier
of entry to contributing to a, to a discussion.
And we want to create Rumi, you know, I'm not
trying to just sell Rumi, but, like, yeah.
To say, like, we can, we can do that and then progressively,
like, build in the structure and we can keep refining on
our ideas and move to, like, publishing to the broader ecosystem.
We want to get, have these ideas but not lose them.
Not, like, lose that knowledge and, yeah, to be cultivating, cultiv
ating knowledge and sharing it with whoever we want to collaborate with
in the broader world.
So, I just wanted to say, like, yeah, thank you for your
comment.
Like, yeah, we're right with you.
I've got another question.
Do you have the comments?
Wonderful.
Yeah.
So, I don't really have too much of a horse in
this, but I just follow a lot of scientists on X and
Blue Sky.
And this is, I just want to preface this by saying,
you know, I don't think that people shouldn't do this,
but, and this is going to be a bit brusque,
but, you know, I was just thinking about the stuff about the
starter pack and the stuff about, like, creating cultural norms.
And I'm kind of just like going to drive the dagger
and it's like, you know, with the starter packs, when you
follow them and you know that they're all like seasoned micro
bloggers, you're like, okay, if I hit this starter pack
follow, am I going to get a lot of like good science
and new emerging science stuff?
Or am I going to get like, a bunch of crash outs
from X addicts who are like, dash brought trauma.
Right.
So I'm thinking like, is there something we can do about
like, how to like rehabilitate people who have been using micro
blogging for a long time to make it more comfortable for
finding cool stuff.
And also just maintain like, you know, like, I don't want
to say you can't do it.
You've earned it.
You know, you've done like great stuff, but also we see
a lot of it already.
So if there's like new interfaces, new norms that can be
done about this.
I had a joke earlier.
I was going to say, you know, ask Maria, like, was she
doing machine learning starter pack number one, two, four, five.
The original.
That was one thing I noticed too, is that we did spill
over and there was kind of jockeying for like
prestige.
Like, oh, you got to make it onto the, you know, that
list.
And so that is, you know, part of the challenge.
And I think it's something where, you know, to get back
to the kind of roomy piece, I like the idea of,
you know, creating space for people to get their bearings.
You know, you almost have to let, you have to figure out
your identity.
You know, are you going to be, you know, what hats are
you going to wear?
And I think the people that I see that enjoy it the
most switch those out.
They're like, yeah, I'm a scientist, but I was talking
about it at lunch.
You know, one of the people in my feed that's actually
did stick around is huge into vintage computers.
And he will post his weekends are full of going in there
and showing off those computers.
And so that's just, you know, that's related to his
job, but that's just his passion.
And I think, oh, letting people figure out that identity.
Like, I'm not going to be, you know, like I've
got to be the PhD student in this.
I've got to represent my field and my school.
And like, it's okay to show off your knitting, to show
you what you're enjoyed with.
And I think that space is needed.
Yeah, so I'm going to play off that in a second.
But I just want to mention that we did have a break
planned now.
So if you need a break, please go take a break.
We are going to continue with the talks at 3:00 promptly.
But yeah, so I think, like, the thing that is wonderful about
Blue Sky is, you know, I did feel a lot of that
pressure to just be one person and post about one thing on
Instagram.
Because these things have one algorithm.
They see what you're posting about, and that's the algorithm.
Like, you can't change what you're doing.
Like, I saw many people go through this of, like, just having
multiple accounts to post about all these different things.
And I could never do that.
Like, I just, like, am incapable of having multiple accounts and posting
multiple things.
So I find Blue Sky, like, very welcoming in that respect of,
I can post whatever.
And if you don't want to see some content, don't
follow me.
Just use feeds where you see my posts.
Like, I think there's a lot of people here at atmosphere
conference where I don't actually follow them.
But I regularly interact with them because I use the atmosphere feed
that I've made where I can see all of their relevant
posts to me.
And sometimes I'll follow them, but I like to keep my
follow list very low so I don't get overwhelmed.
And I don't really want to see political content because I
get very overwhelmed.
But, like, I post, I actually don't post that much science,
but that's because my science is hard.
And also I haven't published anything yet, which we love open
science and we would love to do that.
But doing it is hard.
Yeah, so I mostly post AT science stuff.
But sometimes I post art.
Sometimes I post, I don't know.
I don't even know what I do.
But, yeah, I think to that point of, like, starter packs, every
time there was a starter pack, I know, like, there was one
for a few that I was interested in.
And I always converted them to a list.
I didn't want to be forced to follow every single person
because then you also are following, I think, the default is that
you see everyone's reposts.
And their replies in your following feed, I immediately turned those off.
But I don't think that's necessarily something everyone was doing.
And so I think there was also some amount of people just
not using Blue Sky because they'd go to their following feed
and it's just retweets of all the horrors
of the world.
Because there's a lot of them and that's valid.
But once you've seen it, once you know it, okay, go
do what you can about it.
You don't need to keep seeing it.
Like, do something.
Don't just drown.
But, yeah.
So, starter packs, not my favorite.
I do like lists and I do like feeds.
And if you want to talk to me about making a feed,
I can help you with that.
So, we have two more comments from the room and then maybe
somebody of you wants to close the panel and then go to
the break and the next session will start at 3:00 PM.
So, we have one, two more.
Thank you.
Being sciency, I'd like to make a hypothesis and that
is that some of the challenges that you've described and the
solutions that you've described are bounded within the ways that the
Blue Sky app itself works.
And we've talked a lot about protocol and backend and tech
y nerd stuff here.
But I wonder if you have any thoughts about whether a different
app view, different interface is something that, for instance, could put longer
form posts side by side with short posts or whatever might help
ease that onboarding and community building.
Yes.
I gave a talk this morning about Leah, which is a app
view that tries to build in a lot of our various learning
s and wishes for customization for research specific uses.
So, check out that talk.
I'll say too, like one thing that that's also emerged
from seeing.
So, like Richard Ferro does the Med Sky Community and he
's a machine.
He's got like 70 feeds and he did the Olympics feed
and he does Latin Sky.
And so, Richard, I don't know if you're watching on
the stream, but, you know, hats off to you.
But the reason I bring it up is because he's taking
nuance from Black Sky too and seeing like, oh, there could be
some really cool stuff we can do there with labelers and
like verified users.
And, you know, because he's also concerned about medical misinformation.
And so, how do you fight that?
And so, that's, I think, the iceberg that we're standing
on is like there's a lot of depth here.
There's a lot of opportunity.
And it sometimes becomes overwhelming with that there's almost too many
tools first to engage with.
Like which ones are effective, which ones are going to work.
I think we have to kind of build it like Maria's
done and see, you know, like what resonates with the community?
What do they need?
And that's what I think, you know, how we get there.
Yeah.
So, I think Leah is a really good direction.
And I really like the idea of, you know, being able to
do embedded lexicons because then we're taking advantage of
this AT protocol ecosystem.
But we're leveraging it in a very AT science format.
And I'll just mention Richard also runs the stem labelers
feed, which I think is stemlabels.
xyz.
I could be wrong on that, but you can find me if
I'm wrong and ask me later.
But he also runs that feed, or sorry, not that feed, that
labeler, which also has lists for each one.
And so, I would like to encourage you all, if you are
scientists of any kind, you know, as we mentioned earlier, don't
have to be a traditional scientist, grab a label.
I know it's a little bit difficult right now to find
the labels.
I'd like to think about how we can move that to
an easier to access system.
And I think that's one challenge that we have as a
science community is we are generally scientists at our core.
We have jobs that are in science.
We're often overloaded with work already as researchers.
And so, being able to connect with the wider developer community and
have them get interested in this and have them help us build
these things because we are much more limited in our time.
And then that gets into, of course, questions of funding.
Okay, how do we make sure these developers are getting funded?
But really building those bridges, I think, is also beneficial for science
as a science, you know?
Well, we can start building, like, the open science stuff that was
being talked about earlier.
We can start making these modular data connections and evidence linking to
claims and all of these things if we are working people with
people who know science, who know development, but then also taking people
who are really just mostly science and people who are really mostly
just developers and bringing us all together, I think, is really how
we move and make, like, these app views and get people attracted
to it.
Because I think you're right, like, blue sky by itself, that
's what people know.
So there's always this challenge of, okay, how do we get
them to know, well, you have this blue sky account, but you
can just use Leah, which gives you your science that you want.
I think, yeah, well, one more question.
Okay, so this is, I don't know, comment or discussion, I
don't know.
So I've heard today a lot of discussion around governance, around
the sciences, basically, you know, how do we make sure we have
full control over our research and the documentation with it and making
sure, you know, just get in rock hands, you know, hide from
AI training, for example.
And then kind of the segue always goes into Rumi and
such.
So one of the things I'm for full disclosure, North Sky
Social, I'm working on a private permission data service.
And so with that, it's basically a permission layer, you know,
where you can kind of define communities or groups.
And so this is where, you know, we're doing with the
goal of like, you know, for, you know, marginalized communities that are
always basically being targeted.
And one thing for me is like, I'm always, I'm
basically like, looking at other use cases for it.
So I remember like, I talked to Torsten last month, the
Berlin AT Pro to meet up, around what they're doing with
like, papers and document documents, which doesn't quite fit for how
it works.
But this is where I say like, general comment is like, if
there are other use cases from the sciences that actually would fit
this, I'm very eager to also discuss that.
Like our, you know, I'm doing some also my spare time.
But it's always something that's like, once we kind of
get it, it's actually being developed in the open, everything's
out or the codes aren't out there.
But I would be keen to kind of see what else can
actually be supported for it, because it's basically being developed as
like, as like primitives, that anything can actually be used for
it.
Okay.
I just had one closing thought if we're thinking about like,
why scientists are migrating or not migrating.
I think we might also overestimate their understanding of anything
about at proto and atmosphere.
Like when I told people I'm going to atmosphere conf, even
people who are very active on blue sky have no idea what
atmosphere is.
So we might be, there might be a lot more marketing that
we can do.
There are already strong movements in science like open science.
And so if we can sell things the right way and make
it clear, and that's something that like custom apps can also
let us do.
We can do that marketing and emphasize certain features in ways that
blue sky does not.
I think we're closing up for now.
So just.
Yeah.
So we'll, yeah, we'll move on to the next session.
And we also have a session upstairs with Matthew Lowery.
Yeah, maybe we can give a round of applause first.
Thank you.
Please continue in the end conference if you, if you have more
thoughts on this.
Um, and yeah, now we just have a parallel session upstairs with
Matthew Lowery about sustainability and building research institutions on at proto
and what that looks like.
Uh, there'll be a few interesting speakers there.
And, uh, here we'll have some, uh, researchers telling us about
their PhD research on at proto and blue sky.
into the sky.